
 the same subject continued (the union as a safeguard against domestic
 faction and insurrection)
 
 from the daily advertiser. thursday, november 22, 1787.
 
 madison
 
 to the people of the state of new york:
 
 among the numerous advantages promised by a well constructed union, none
 deserves to be more accurately developed than its tendency to break and
 control the violence of faction. the friend of popular governments never
 finds himself so much alarmed for their character and fate, as when he
 contemplates their propensity to this dangerous vice. he will not fail,
 therefore, to set a due value on any plan which, without violating the
 principles to which he is attached, provides a proper cure for it.
 the instability, injustice, and confusion introduced into the public
 councils, have, in truth, been the mortal diseases under which popular
 governments have everywhere perished; as they continue to be the
 favorite and fruitful topics from which the adversaries to liberty
 derive their most specious declamations. the valuable improvements made
 by the american constitutions on the popular models, both ancient
 and modern, cannot certainly be too much admired; but it would be an
 unwarrantable partiality, to contend that they have as effectually
 obviated the danger on this side, as was wished and expected. complaints
 are everywhere heard from our most considerate and virtuous citizens,
 equally the friends of public and private faith, and of public and
 personal liberty, that our governments are too unstable, that the public
 good is disregarded in the conflicts of rival parties, and that measures
 are too often decided, not according to the rules of justice and the
 rights of the minor party, but by the superior force of an interested
 and overbearing majority. however anxiously we may wish that these
 complaints had no foundation, the evidence, of known facts will not
 permit us to deny that they are in some degree true. it will be found,
 indeed, on a candid review of our situation, that some of the distresses
 under which we labor have been erroneously charged on the operation
 of our governments; but it will be found, at the same time, that other
 causes will not alone account for many of our heaviest misfortunes;
 and, particularly, for that prevailing and increasing distrust of public
 engagements, and alarm for private rights, which are echoed from one
 end of the continent to the other. these must be chiefly, if not wholly,
 effects of the unsteadiness and injustice with which a factious spirit
 has tainted our public administrations.
 
 by a faction, i understand a number of citizens, whether amounting to a
 majority or a minority of the whole, who are united and actuated by some
 common impulse of passion, or of interest, adversed to the rights of
 other citizens, or to the permanent and aggregate interests of the
 community.
 
 there are two methods of curing the mischiefs of faction: the one, by
 removing its causes; the other, by controlling its effects.
 
 there are again two methods of removing the causes of faction: the
 one, by destroying the liberty which is essential to its existence; the
 other, by giving to every citizen the same opinions, the same passions,
 and the same interests.
 
 it could never be more truly said than of the first remedy, that it was
 worse than the disease. liberty is to faction what air is to fire, an
 aliment without which it instantly expires. but it could not be less
 folly to abolish liberty, which is essential to political life, because
 it nourishes faction, than it would be to wish the annihilation of
 air, which is essential to animal life, because it imparts to fire its
 destructive agency.
 
 the second expedient is as impracticable as the first would be unwise.
 as long as the reason of man continues fallible, and he is at liberty
 to exercise it, different opinions will be formed. as long as the
 connection subsists between his reason and his self-love, his opinions
 and his passions will have a reciprocal influence on each other; and the
 former will be objects to which the latter will attach themselves. the
 diversity in the faculties of men, from which the rights of property
 originate, is not less an insuperable obstacle to a uniformity of
 interests. the protection of these faculties is the first object of
 government. from the protection of different and unequal faculties of
 acquiring property, the possession of different degrees and kinds of
 property immediately results; and from the influence of these on the
 sentiments and views of the respective proprietors, ensues a division of
 the society into different interests and parties.
 
 the latent causes of faction are thus sown in the nature of man; and
 we see them everywhere brought into different degrees of activity,
 according to the different circumstances of civil society. a zeal for
 different opinions concerning religion, concerning government, and many
 other points, as well of speculation as of practice; an attachment to
 different leaders ambitiously contending for pre-eminence and power; or
 to persons of other descriptions whose fortunes have been interesting
 to the human passions, have, in turn, divided mankind into parties,
 inflamed them with mutual animosity, and rendered them much more
 disposed to vex and oppress each other than to co-operate for their
 common good. so strong is this propensity of mankind to fall into mutual
 animosities, that where no substantial occasion presents itself, the
 most frivolous and fanciful distinctions have been sufficient to kindle
 their unfriendly passions and excite their most violent conflicts. but
 the most common and durable source of factions has been the various
 and unequal distribution of property. those who hold and those who are
 without property have ever formed distinct interests in society.
 those who are creditors, and those who are debtors, fall under a
 like discrimination. a landed interest, a manufacturing interest, a
 mercantile interest, a moneyed interest, with many lesser interests,
 grow up of necessity in civilized nations, and divide them into
 different classes, actuated by different sentiments and views. the
 regulation of these various and interfering interests forms the
 principal task of modern legislation, and involves the spirit of party
 and faction in the necessary and ordinary operations of the government.
 
 no man is allowed to be a judge in his own cause, because his interest
 would certainly bias his judgment, and, not improbably, corrupt his
 integrity. with equal, nay with greater reason, a body of men are unfit
 to be both judges and parties at the same time; yet what are many of the
 most important acts of legislation, but so many judicial determinations,
 not indeed concerning the rights of single persons, but concerning the
 rights of large bodies of citizens? and what are the different classes
 of legislators but advocates and parties to the causes which they
 determine? is a law proposed concerning private debts? it is a question
 to which the creditors are parties on one side and the debtors on the
 other. justice ought to hold the balance between them. yet the parties
 are, and must be, themselves the judges; and the most numerous party,
 or, in other words, the most powerful faction must be expected to
 prevail. shall domestic manufactures be encouraged, and in what degree,
 by restrictions on foreign manufactures? are questions which would be
 differently decided by the landed and the manufacturing classes, and
 probably by neither with a sole regard to justice and the public good.
 the apportionment of taxes on the various descriptions of property is
 an act which seems to require the most exact impartiality; yet there is,
 perhaps, no legislative act in which greater opportunity and temptation
 are given to a predominant party to trample on the rules of justice.
 every shilling with which they overburden the inferior number, is a
 shilling saved to their own pockets.
 
 it is in vain to say that enlightened statesmen will be able to adjust
 these clashing interests, and render them all subservient to the public
 good. enlightened statesmen will not always be at the helm. nor, in many
 cases, can such an adjustment be made at all without taking into view
 indirect and remote considerations, which will rarely prevail over the
 immediate interest which one party may find in disregarding the rights
 of another or the good of the whole.
 
 the inference to which we are brought is, that the causes of faction
 cannot be removed, and that relief is only to be sought in the means of
 controlling its effects.
 
 if a faction consists of less than a majority, relief is supplied by the
 republican principle, which enables the majority to defeat its sinister
 views by regular vote. it may clog the administration, it may convulse
 the society; but it will be unable to execute and mask its violence
 under the forms of the constitution. when a majority is included in a
 faction, the form of popular government, on the other hand, enables it
 to sacrifice to its ruling passion or interest both the public good
 and the rights of other citizens. to secure the public good and private
 rights against the danger of such a faction, and at the same time to
 preserve the spirit and the form of popular government, is then the
 great object to which our inquiries are directed. let me add that it is
 the great desideratum by which this form of government can be rescued
 from the opprobrium under which it has so long labored, and be
 recommended to the esteem and adoption of mankind.
 
 by what means is this object attainable? evidently by one of two only.
 either the existence of the same passion or interest in a majority at
 the same time must be prevented, or the majority, having such coexistent
 passion or interest, must be rendered, by their number and local
 situation, unable to concert and carry into effect schemes of
 oppression. if the impulse and the opportunity be suffered to coincide,
 we well know that neither moral nor religious motives can be relied on
 as an adequate control. they are not found to be such on the injustice
 and violence of individuals, and lose their efficacy in proportion to
 the number combined together, that is, in proportion as their efficacy
 becomes needful.
 
 from this view of the subject it may be concluded that a pure democracy,
 by which i mean a society consisting of a small number of citizens, who
 assemble and administer the government in person, can admit of no cure
 for the mischiefs of faction. a common passion or interest will, in
 almost every case, be felt by a majority of the whole; a communication
 and concert result from the form of government itself; and there is
 nothing to check the inducements to sacrifice the weaker party or an
 obnoxious individual. hence it is that such democracies have ever
 been spectacles of turbulence and contention; have ever been found
 incompatible with personal security or the rights of property; and have
 in general been as short in their lives as they have been violent in
 their deaths. theoretic politicians, who have patronized this species
 of government, have erroneously supposed that by reducing mankind to
 a perfect equality in their political rights, they would, at the same
 time, be perfectly equalized and assimilated in their possessions, their
 opinions, and their passions.
 
 a republic, by which i mean a government in which the scheme of
 representation takes place, opens a different prospect, and promises
 the cure for which we are seeking. let us examine the points in which it
 varies from pure democracy, and we shall comprehend both the nature of
 the cure and the efficacy which it must derive from the union.
 
 the two great points of difference between a democracy and a republic
 are: first, the delegation of the government, in the latter, to a small
 number of citizens elected by the rest; secondly, the greater number of
 citizens, and greater sphere of country, over which the latter may be
 extended.
 
 the effect of the first difference is, on the one hand, to refine and
 enlarge the public views, by passing them through the medium of a chosen
 body of citizens, whose wisdom may best discern the true interest of
 their country, and whose patriotism and love of justice will be least
 likely to sacrifice it to temporary or partial considerations. under
 such a regulation, it may well happen that the public voice, pronounced
 by the representatives of the people, will be more consonant to the
 public good than if pronounced by the people themselves, convened for
 the purpose. on the other hand, the effect may be inverted. men of
 factious tempers, of local prejudices, or of sinister designs, may, by
 intrigue, by corruption, or by other means, first obtain the suffrages,
 and then betray the interests, of the people. the question resulting is,
 whether small or extensive republics are more favorable to the election
 of proper guardians of the public weal; and it is clearly decided in
 favor of the latter by two obvious considerations:
 
 in the first place, it is to be remarked that, however small the
 republic may be, the representatives must be raised to a certain number,
 in order to guard against the cabals of a few; and that, however large
 it may be, they must be limited to a certain number, in order to
 guard against the confusion of a multitude. hence, the number of
 representatives in the two cases not being in proportion to that of
 the two constituents, and being proportionally greater in the small
 republic, it follows that, if the proportion of fit characters be not
 less in the large than in the small republic, the former will present a
 greater option, and consequently a greater probability of a fit choice.
 
 in the next place, as each representative will be chosen by a greater
 number of citizens in the large than in the small republic, it will
 be more difficult for unworthy candidates to practice with success the
 vicious arts by which elections are too often carried; and the suffrages
 of the people being more free, will be more likely to centre in men who
 possess the most attractive merit and the most diffusive and established
 characters.
 
 it must be confessed that in this, as in most other cases, there is a
 mean, on both sides of which inconveniences will be found to lie.
 by enlarging too much the number of electors, you render the
 representatives too little acquainted with all their local circumstances
 and lesser interests; as by reducing it too much, you render him unduly
 attached to these, and too little fit to comprehend and pursue great and
 national objects. the federal constitution forms a happy combination in
 this respect; the great and aggregate interests being referred to the
 national, the local and particular to the state legislatures.
 
 the other point of difference is, the greater number of citizens
 and extent of territory which may be brought within the compass of
 republican than of democratic government; and it is this circumstance
 principally which renders factious combinations less to be dreaded
 in the former than in the latter. the smaller the society, the fewer
 probably will be the distinct parties and interests composing it; the
 fewer the distinct parties and interests, the more frequently will
 a majority be found of the same party; and the smaller the number of
 individuals composing a majority, and the smaller the compass within
 which they are placed, the more easily will they concert and execute
 their plans of oppression. extend the sphere, and you take in a greater
 variety of parties and interests; you make it less probable that a
 majority of the whole will have a common motive to invade the rights
 of other citizens; or if such a common motive exists, it will be more
 difficult for all who feel it to discover their own strength, and to act
 in unison with each other. besides other impediments, it may be remarked
 that, where there is a consciousness of unjust or dishonorable purposes,
 communication is always checked by distrust in proportion to the number
 whose concurrence is necessary.
 
 hence, it clearly appears, that the same advantage which a republic has
 over a democracy, in controlling the effects of faction, is enjoyed by
 a large over a small republic,--is enjoyed by the union over the
 states composing it. does the advantage consist in the substitution of
 representatives whose enlightened views and virtuous sentiments render
 them superior to local prejudices and schemes of injustice? it will not
 be denied that the representation of the union will be most likely
 to possess these requisite endowments. does it consist in the greater
 security afforded by a greater variety of parties, against the event of
 any one party being able to outnumber and oppress the rest? in an equal
 degree does the increased variety of parties comprised within the
 union, increase this security. does it, in fine, consist in the greater
 obstacles opposed to the concert and accomplishment of the secret wishes
 of an unjust and interested majority? here, again, the extent of the
 union gives it the most palpable advantage.
 
 the influence of factious leaders may kindle a flame within their
 particular states, but will be unable to spread a general conflagration
 through the other states. a religious sect may degenerate into a
 political faction in a part of the confederacy; but the variety of sects
 dispersed over the entire face of it must secure the national councils
 against any danger from that source. a rage for paper money, for an
 abolition of debts, for an equal division of property, or for any other
 improper or wicked project, will be less apt to pervade the whole body
 of the union than a particular member of it; in the same proportion as
 such a malady is more likely to taint a particular county or district,
 than an entire state.
 
 in the extent and proper structure of the union, therefore, we behold
 a republican remedy for the diseases most incident to republican
 government. and according to the degree of pleasure and pride we feel
 in being republicans, ought to be our zeal in cherishing the spirit and
 supporting the character of federalists.
 
 publius
