
 the same subject continued (concerning dangers from foreign force and
 influence)
 
 for the independent journal. saturday, november 10, 1787
 
 jay
 
 to the people of the state of new york:
 
 queen anne, in her letter of the 1st july, 1706, to the scotch
 parliament, makes some observations on the importance of the union then
 forming between england and scotland, which merit our attention. i shall
 present the public with one or two extracts from it: "an entire and
 perfect union will be the solid foundation of lasting peace: it will
 secure your religion, liberty, and property; remove the animosities
 amongst yourselves, and the jealousies and differences betwixt our two
 kingdoms. it must increase your strength, riches, and trade; and by
 this union the whole island, being joined in affection and free from all
 apprehensions of different interest, will be enabled to resist all its
 enemies." "we most earnestly recommend to you calmness and unanimity in
 this great and weighty affair, that the union may be brought to a happy
 conclusion, being the only effectual way to secure our present and
 future happiness, and disappoint the designs of our and your enemies,
 who will doubtless, on this occasion, use their utmost endeavors to
 prevent or delay this union."
 
 it was remarked in the preceding paper, that weakness and divisions at
 home would invite dangers from abroad; and that nothing would tend more
 to secure us from them than union, strength, and good government within
 ourselves. this subject is copious and cannot easily be exhausted.
 
 the history of great britain is the one with which we are in general the
 best acquainted, and it gives us many useful lessons. we may profit by
 their experience without paying the price which it cost them. although
 it seems obvious to common sense that the people of such an island
 should be but one nation, yet we find that they were for ages divided
 into three, and that those three were almost constantly embroiled in
 quarrels and wars with one another. notwithstanding their true interest
 with respect to the continental nations was really the same, yet by the
 arts and policy and practices of those nations, their mutual jealousies
 were perpetually kept inflamed, and for a long series of years they
 were far more inconvenient and troublesome than they were useful and
 assisting to each other.
 
 should the people of america divide themselves into three or four
 nations, would not the same thing happen? would not similar jealousies
 arise, and be in like manner cherished? instead of their being "joined
 in affection" and free from all apprehension of different "interests,"
 envy and jealousy would soon extinguish confidence and affection,
 and the partial interests of each confederacy, instead of the general
 interests of all america, would be the only objects of their policy and
 pursuits. hence, like most other bordering nations, they would always
 be either involved in disputes and war, or live in the constant
 apprehension of them.
 
 the most sanguine advocates for three or four confederacies cannot
 reasonably suppose that they would long remain exactly on an equal
 footing in point of strength, even if it was possible to form them so at
 first; but, admitting that to be practicable, yet what human contrivance
 can secure the continuance of such equality? independent of those local
 circumstances which tend to beget and increase power in one part and to
 impede its progress in another, we must advert to the effects of that
 superior policy and good management which would probably distinguish the
 government of one above the rest, and by which their relative equality
 in strength and consideration would be destroyed. for it cannot be
 presumed that the same degree of sound policy, prudence, and foresight
 would uniformly be observed by each of these confederacies for a long
 succession of years.
 
 whenever, and from whatever causes, it might happen, and happen it
 would, that any one of these nations or confederacies should rise on the
 scale of political importance much above the degree of her neighbors,
 that moment would those neighbors behold her with envy and with fear.
 both those passions would lead them to countenance, if not to promote,
 whatever might promise to diminish her importance; and would also
 restrain them from measures calculated to advance or even to secure her
 prosperity. much time would not be necessary to enable her to discern
 these unfriendly dispositions. she would soon begin, not only to lose
 confidence in her neighbors, but also to feel a disposition equally
 unfavorable to them. distrust naturally creates distrust, and by nothing
 is good-will and kind conduct more speedily changed than by invidious
 jealousies and uncandid imputations, whether expressed or implied.
 
 the north is generally the region of strength, and many local
 circumstances render it probable that the most northern of the proposed
 confederacies would, at a period not very distant, be unquestionably
 more formidable than any of the others. no sooner would this become
 evident than the northern hive would excite the same ideas and
 sensations in the more southern parts of america which it formerly
 did in the southern parts of europe. nor does it appear to be a rash
 conjecture that its young swarms might often be tempted to gather honey
 in the more blooming fields and milder air of their luxurious and more
 delicate neighbors.
 
 they who well consider the history of similar divisions and
 confederacies will find abundant reason to apprehend that those in
 contemplation would in no other sense be neighbors than as they would
 be borderers; that they would neither love nor trust one another, but on
 the contrary would be a prey to discord, jealousy, and mutual injuries;
 in short, that they would place us exactly in the situations in which
 some nations doubtless wish to see us, viz., formidable only to each
 other.
 
 from these considerations it appears that those gentlemen are greatly
 mistaken who suppose that alliances offensive and defensive might be
 formed between these confederacies, and would produce that combination
 and union of wills of arms and of resources, which would be necessary
 to put and keep them in a formidable state of defense against foreign
 enemies.
 
 when did the independent states, into which britain and spain were
 formerly divided, combine in such alliance, or unite their forces
 against a foreign enemy? the proposed confederacies will be distinct
 nations. each of them would have its commerce with foreigners to
 regulate by distinct treaties; and as their productions and commodities
 are different and proper for different markets, so would those treaties
 be essentially different. different commercial concerns must create
 different interests, and of course different degrees of political
 attachment to and connection with different foreign nations. hence it
 might and probably would happen that the foreign nation with whom the
 southern confederacy might be at war would be the one with whom the
 northern confederacy would be the most desirous of preserving peace and
 friendship. an alliance so contrary to their immediate interest would
 not therefore be easy to form, nor, if formed, would it be observed and
 fulfilled with perfect good faith.
 
 nay, it is far more probable that in america, as in europe, neighboring
 nations, acting under the impulse of opposite interests and unfriendly
 passions, would frequently be found taking different sides. considering
 our distance from europe, it would be more natural for these
 confederacies to apprehend danger from one another than from distant
 nations, and therefore that each of them should be more desirous to
 guard against the others by the aid of foreign alliances, than to guard
 against foreign dangers by alliances between themselves. and here let us
 not forget how much more easy it is to receive foreign fleets into our
 ports, and foreign armies into our country, than it is to persuade or
 compel them to depart. how many conquests did the romans and others make
 in the characters of allies, and what innovations did they under
 the same character introduce into the governments of those whom they
 pretended to protect.
 
 let candid men judge, then, whether the division of america into any
 given number of independent sovereignties would tend to secure us
 against the hostilities and improper interference of foreign nations.
 
 publius
