
 the same subject continued (concerning dangers from dissensions between
 the states)
 
 for the independent journal. thursday, november 15, 1787
 
 hamilton
 
 to the people of the state of new york:
 
 it is sometimes asked, with an air of seeming triumph, what inducements
 could the states have, if disunited, to make war upon each other? it
 would be a full answer to this question to say--precisely the same
 inducements which have, at different times, deluged in blood all the
 nations in the world. but, unfortunately for us, the question admits
 of a more particular answer. there are causes of differences within
 our immediate contemplation, of the tendency of which, even under the
 restraints of a federal constitution, we have had sufficient experience
 to enable us to form a judgment of what might be expected if those
 restraints were removed.
 
 territorial disputes have at all times been found one of the most
 fertile sources of hostility among nations. perhaps the greatest
 proportion of wars that have desolated the earth have sprung from this
 origin. this cause would exist among us in full force. we have a vast
 tract of unsettled territory within the boundaries of the united states.
 there still are discordant and undecided claims between several of them,
 and the dissolution of the union would lay a foundation for similar
 claims between them all. it is well known that they have heretofore had
 serious and animated discussion concerning the rights to the lands which
 were ungranted at the time of the revolution, and which usually went
 under the name of crown lands. the states within the limits of whose
 colonial governments they were comprised have claimed them as their
 property, the others have contended that the rights of the crown in this
 article devolved upon the union; especially as to all that part of the
 western territory which, either by actual possession, or through the
 submission of the indian proprietors, was subjected to the jurisdiction
 of the king of great britain, till it was relinquished in the treaty of
 peace. this, it has been said, was at all events an acquisition to the
 confederacy by compact with a foreign power. it has been the prudent
 policy of congress to appease this controversy, by prevailing upon the
 states to make cessions to the united states for the benefit of the
 whole. this has been so far accomplished as, under a continuation of the
 union, to afford a decided prospect of an amicable termination of the
 dispute. a dismemberment of the confederacy, however, would revive this
 dispute, and would create others on the same subject. at present, a
 large part of the vacant western territory is, by cession at least, if
 not by any anterior right, the common property of the union. if that
 were at an end, the states which made the cession, on a principle
 of federal compromise, would be apt when the motive of the grant had
 ceased, to reclaim the lands as a reversion. the other states would no
 doubt insist on a proportion, by right of representation. their argument
 would be, that a grant, once made, could not be revoked; and that the
 justice of participating in territory acquired or secured by the joint
 efforts of the confederacy, remained undiminished. if, contrary to
 probability, it should be admitted by all the states, that each had a
 right to a share of this common stock, there would still be a difficulty
 to be surmounted, as to a proper rule of apportionment. different
 principles would be set up by different states for this purpose; and as
 they would affect the opposite interests of the parties, they might not
 easily be susceptible of a pacific adjustment.
 
 in the wide field of western territory, therefore, we perceive an ample
 theatre for hostile pretensions, without any umpire or common judge to
 interpose between the contending parties. to reason from the past to
 the future, we shall have good ground to apprehend, that the sword
 would sometimes be appealed to as the arbiter of their differences.
 the circumstances of the dispute between connecticut and pennsylvania,
 respecting the land at wyoming, admonish us not to be sanguine in
 expecting an easy accommodation of such differences. the articles of
 confederation obliged the parties to submit the matter to the decision
 of a federal court. the submission was made, and the court decided
 in favor of pennsylvania. but connecticut gave strong indications
 of dissatisfaction with that determination; nor did she appear to be
 entirely resigned to it, till, by negotiation and management, something
 like an equivalent was found for the loss she supposed herself to have
 sustained. nothing here said is intended to convey the slightest censure
 on the conduct of that state. she no doubt sincerely believed herself
 to have been injured by the decision; and states, like individuals,
 acquiesce with great reluctance in determinations to their disadvantage.
 
 those who had an opportunity of seeing the inside of the transactions
 which attended the progress of the controversy between this state and
 the district of vermont, can vouch the opposition we experienced, as
 well from states not interested as from those which were interested
 in the claim; and can attest the danger to which the peace of the
 confederacy might have been exposed, had this state attempted to assert
 its rights by force. two motives preponderated in that opposition: one,
 a jealousy entertained of our future power; and the other, the interest
 of certain individuals of influence in the neighboring states, who had
 obtained grants of lands under the actual government of that district.
 even the states which brought forward claims, in contradiction to ours,
 seemed more solicitous to dismember this state, than to establish
 their own pretensions. these were new hampshire, massachusetts, and
 connecticut. new jersey and rhode island, upon all occasions, discovered
 a warm zeal for the independence of vermont; and maryland, till alarmed
 by the appearance of a connection between canada and that state, entered
 deeply into the same views. these being small states, saw with an
 unfriendly eye the perspective of our growing greatness. in a review of
 these transactions we may trace some of the causes which would be
 likely to embroil the states with each other, if it should be their
 unpropitious destiny to become disunited.
 
 the competitions of commerce would be another fruitful source of
 contention. the states less favorably circumstanced would be desirous
 of escaping from the disadvantages of local situation, and of sharing
 in the advantages of their more fortunate neighbors. each state,
 or separate confederacy, would pursue a system of commercial policy
 peculiar to itself. this would occasion distinctions, preferences, and
 exclusions, which would beget discontent. the habits of intercourse, on
 the basis of equal privileges, to which we have been accustomed since
 the earliest settlement of the country, would give a keener edge to
 those causes of discontent than they would naturally have independent
 of this circumstance. we should be ready to denominate injuries those
 things which were in reality the justifiable acts of independent
 sovereignties consulting a distinct interest. the spirit of enterprise,
 which characterizes the commercial part of america, has left no occasion
 of displaying itself unimproved. it is not at all probable that this
 unbridled spirit would pay much respect to those regulations of trade by
 which particular states might endeavor to secure exclusive benefits to
 their own citizens. the infractions of these regulations, on one side,
 the efforts to prevent and repel them, on the other, would naturally
 lead to outrages, and these to reprisals and wars.
 
 the opportunities which some states would have of rendering others
 tributary to them by commercial regulations would be impatiently
 submitted to by the tributary states. the relative situation of new
 york, connecticut, and new jersey would afford an example of this
 kind. new york, from the necessities of revenue, must lay duties on
 her importations. a great part of these duties must be paid by the
 inhabitants of the two other states in the capacity of consumers of what
 we import. new york would neither be willing nor able to forego this
 advantage. her citizens would not consent that a duty paid by them
 should be remitted in favor of the citizens of her neighbors; nor would
 it be practicable, if there were not this impediment in the way, to
 distinguish the customers in our own markets. would connecticut and new
 jersey long submit to be taxed by new york for her exclusive benefit?
 should we be long permitted to remain in the quiet and undisturbed
 enjoyment of a metropolis, from the possession of which we derived
 an advantage so odious to our neighbors, and, in their opinion, so
 oppressive? should we be able to preserve it against the incumbent
 weight of connecticut on the one side, and the co-operating pressure of
 new jersey on the other? these are questions that temerity alone will
 answer in the affirmative.
 
 the public debt of the union would be a further cause of collision
 between the separate states or confederacies. the apportionment, in the
 first instance, and the progressive extinguishment afterward, would be
 alike productive of ill-humor and animosity. how would it be possible
 to agree upon a rule of apportionment satisfactory to all? there is
 scarcely any that can be proposed which is entirely free from real
 objections. these, as usual, would be exaggerated by the adverse
 interest of the parties. there are even dissimilar views among the
 states as to the general principle of discharging the public debt. some
 of them, either less impressed with the importance of national credit,
 or because their citizens have little, if any, immediate interest in the
 question, feel an indifference, if not a repugnance, to the payment of
 the domestic debt at any rate. these would be inclined to magnify the
 difficulties of a distribution. others of them, a numerous body of whose
 citizens are creditors to the public beyond proportion of the state
 in the total amount of the national debt, would be strenuous for some
 equitable and effective provision. the procrastinations of the former
 would excite the resentments of the latter. the settlement of a rule
 would, in the meantime, be postponed by real differences of opinion and
 affected delays. the citizens of the states interested would clamour;
 foreign powers would urge for the satisfaction of their just demands,
 and the peace of the states would be hazarded to the double contingency
 of external invasion and internal contention.
 
 suppose the difficulties of agreeing upon a rule surmounted, and the
 apportionment made. still there is great room to suppose that the rule
 agreed upon would, upon experiment, be found to bear harder upon
 some states than upon others. those which were sufferers by it would
 naturally seek for a mitigation of the burden. the others would as
 naturally be disinclined to a revision, which was likely to end in an
 increase of their own incumbrances. their refusal would be too plausible
 a pretext to the complaining states to withhold their contributions, not
 to be embraced with avidity; and the non-compliance of these states
 with their engagements would be a ground of bitter discussion and
 altercation. if even the rule adopted should in practice justify the
 equality of its principle, still delinquencies in payments on the part
 of some of the states would result from a diversity of other causes--the
 real deficiency of resources; the mismanagement of their finances;
 accidental disorders in the management of the government; and, in
 addition to the rest, the reluctance with which men commonly part with
 money for purposes that have outlived the exigencies which produced
 them, and interfere with the supply of immediate wants. delinquencies,
 from whatever causes, would be productive of complaints, recriminations,
 and quarrels. there is, perhaps, nothing more likely to disturb the
 tranquillity of nations than their being bound to mutual contributions
 for any common object that does not yield an equal and coincident
 benefit. for it is an observation, as true as it is trite, that there is
 nothing men differ so readily about as the payment of money.
 
 laws in violation of private contracts, as they amount to aggressions
 on the rights of those states whose citizens are injured by them, may
 be considered as another probable source of hostility. we are not
 authorized to expect that a more liberal or more equitable spirit would
 preside over the legislations of the individual states hereafter, if
 unrestrained by any additional checks, than we have heretofore seen in
 too many instances disgracing their several codes. we have observed the
 disposition to retaliation excited in connecticut in consequence of
 the enormities perpetrated by the legislature of rhode island; and we
 reasonably infer that, in similar cases, under other circumstances, a
 war, not of parchment, but of the sword, would chastise such atrocious
 breaches of moral obligation and social justice.
 
 the probability of incompatible alliances between the different states
 or confederacies and different foreign nations, and the effects of this
 situation upon the peace of the whole, have been sufficiently unfolded
 in some preceding papers. from the view they have exhibited of this part
 of the subject, this conclusion is to be drawn, that america, if
 not connected at all, or only by the feeble tie of a simple league,
 offensive and defensive, would, by the operation of such jarring
 alliances, be gradually entangled in all the pernicious labyrinths of
 european politics and wars; and by the destructive contentions of the
 parts into which she was divided, would be likely to become a prey to
 the artifices and machinations of powers equally the enemies of them
 all. divide et impera(1) must be the motto of every nation that either
 hates or fears us.(2)
 
 publius
 
 1. divide and command.
 
 2. in order that the whole subject of these papers may as soon as
 possible be laid before the public, it is proposed to publish them four
 times a week--on tuesday in the new york packet and on thursday in the
 daily advertiser.
