
 the same subject continued (concerning dangers from foreign force and
 influence)
 
 for the independent journal. wednesday, november 7, 1787
 
 jay
 
 to the people of the state of new york:
 
 my last paper assigned several reasons why the safety of the people
 would be best secured by union against the danger it may be exposed to
 by just causes of war given to other nations; and those reasons show
 that such causes would not only be more rarely given, but would also be
 more easily accommodated, by a national government than either by the
 state governments or the proposed little confederacies.
 
 but the safety of the people of america against dangers from foreign
 force depends not only on their forbearing to give just causes of war
 to other nations, but also on their placing and continuing themselves in
 such a situation as not to invite hostility or insult; for it need not
 be observed that there are pretended as well as just causes of war.
 
 it is too true, however disgraceful it may be to human nature, that
 nations in general will make war whenever they have a prospect of
 getting anything by it; nay, absolute monarchs will often make war when
 their nations are to get nothing by it, but for the purposes and objects
 merely personal, such as thirst for military glory, revenge for personal
 affronts, ambition, or private compacts to aggrandize or support their
 particular families or partisans. these and a variety of other motives,
 which affect only the mind of the sovereign, often lead him to engage in
 wars not sanctified by justice or the voice and interests of his people.
 but, independent of these inducements to war, which are more prevalent
 in absolute monarchies, but which well deserve our attention, there are
 others which affect nations as often as kings; and some of them will
 on examination be found to grow out of our relative situation and
 circumstances.
 
 with france and with britain we are rivals in the fisheries, and can
 supply their markets cheaper than they can themselves, notwithstanding
 any efforts to prevent it by bounties on their own or duties on foreign
 fish.
 
 with them and with most other european nations we are rivals in
 navigation and the carrying trade; and we shall deceive ourselves if we
 suppose that any of them will rejoice to see it flourish; for, as
 our carrying trade cannot increase without in some degree diminishing
 theirs, it is more their interest, and will be more their policy, to
 restrain than to promote it.
 
 in the trade to china and india, we interfere with more than one nation,
 inasmuch as it enables us to partake in advantages which they had in a
 manner monopolized, and as we thereby supply ourselves with commodities
 which we used to purchase from them.
 
 the extension of our own commerce in our own vessels cannot give
 pleasure to any nations who possess territories on or near this
 continent, because the cheapness and excellence of our productions,
 added to the circumstance of vicinity, and the enterprise and address
 of our merchants and navigators, will give us a greater share in the
 advantages which those territories afford, than consists with the wishes
 or policy of their respective sovereigns.
 
 spain thinks it convenient to shut the mississippi against us on the one
 side, and britain excludes us from the saint lawrence on the other; nor
 will either of them permit the other waters which are between them and
 us to become the means of mutual intercourse and traffic.
 
 from these and such like considerations, which might, if consistent
 with prudence, be more amplified and detailed, it is easy to see that
 jealousies and uneasinesses may gradually slide into the minds and
 cabinets of other nations, and that we are not to expect that they
 should regard our advancement in union, in power and consequence by land
 and by sea, with an eye of indifference and composure.
 
 the people of america are aware that inducements to war may arise out of
 these circumstances, as well as from others not so obvious at present,
 and that whenever such inducements may find fit time and opportunity
 for operation, pretenses to color and justify them will not be wanting.
 wisely, therefore, do they consider union and a good national government
 as necessary to put and keep them in such a situation as, instead of
 inviting war, will tend to repress and discourage it. that situation
 consists in the best possible state of defense, and necessarily depends
 on the government, the arms, and the resources of the country.
 
 as the safety of the whole is the interest of the whole, and cannot
 be provided for without government, either one or more or many, let us
 inquire whether one good government is not, relative to the object in
 question, more competent than any other given number whatever.
 
 one government can collect and avail itself of the talents and
 experience of the ablest men, in whatever part of the union they may be
 found. it can move on uniform principles of policy. it can harmonize,
 assimilate, and protect the several parts and members, and extend the
 benefit of its foresight and precautions to each. in the formation of
 treaties, it will regard the interest of the whole, and the particular
 interests of the parts as connected with that of the whole. it can apply
 the resources and power of the whole to the defense of any particular
 part, and that more easily and expeditiously than state governments or
 separate confederacies can possibly do, for want of concert and unity of
 system. it can place the militia under one plan of discipline, and, by
 putting their officers in a proper line of subordination to the chief
 magistrate, will, as it were, consolidate them into one corps, and
 thereby render them more efficient than if divided into thirteen or into
 three or four distinct independent companies.
 
 what would the militia of britain be if the english militia obeyed the
 government of england, if the scotch militia obeyed the government
 of scotland, and if the welsh militia obeyed the government of wales?
 suppose an invasion; would those three governments (if they agreed at
 all) be able, with all their respective forces, to operate against the
 enemy so effectually as the single government of great britain would?
 
 we have heard much of the fleets of britain, and the time may come, if
 we are wise, when the fleets of america may engage attention. but if one
 national government, had not so regulated the navigation of britain
 as to make it a nursery for seamen--if one national government had not
 called forth all the national means and materials for forming fleets,
 their prowess and their thunder would never have been celebrated. let
 england have its navigation and fleet--let scotland have its navigation
 and fleet--let wales have its navigation and fleet--let ireland have
 its navigation and fleet--let those four of the constituent parts of the
 british empire be be under four independent governments, and it is
 easy to perceive how soon they would each dwindle into comparative
 insignificance.
 
 apply these facts to our own case. leave america divided into thirteen
 or, if you please, into three or four independent governments--what
 armies could they raise and pay--what fleets could they ever hope to
 have? if one was attacked, would the others fly to its succor, and spend
 their blood and money in its defense? would there be no danger of their
 being flattered into neutrality by its specious promises, or seduced by
 a too great fondness for peace to decline hazarding their tranquillity
 and present safety for the sake of neighbors, of whom perhaps they have
 been jealous, and whose importance they are content to see diminished?
 although such conduct would not be wise, it would, nevertheless, be
 natural. the history of the states of greece, and of other countries,
 abounds with such instances, and it is not improbable that what has so
 often happened would, under similar circumstances, happen again.
 
 but admit that they might be willing to help the invaded state or
 confederacy. how, and when, and in what proportion shall aids of men and
 money be afforded? who shall command the allied armies, and from which
 of them shall he receive his orders? who shall settle the terms of
 peace, and in case of disputes what umpire shall decide between them and
 compel acquiescence? various difficulties and inconveniences would be
 inseparable from such a situation; whereas one government, watching over
 the general and common interests, and combining and directing the powers
 and resources of the whole, would be free from all these embarrassments,
 and conduce far more to the safety of the people.
 
 but whatever may be our situation, whether firmly united under one
 national government, or split into a number of confederacies, certain
 it is, that foreign nations will know and view it exactly as it is;
 and they will act toward us accordingly. if they see that our national
 government is efficient and well administered, our trade prudently
 regulated, our militia properly organized and disciplined, our resources
 and finances discreetly managed, our credit re-established, our
 people free, contented, and united, they will be much more disposed to
 cultivate our friendship than provoke our resentment. if, on the other
 hand, they find us either destitute of an effectual government (each
 state doing right or wrong, as to its rulers may seem convenient), or
 split into three or four independent and probably discordant republics
 or confederacies, one inclining to britain, another to france, and a
 third to spain, and perhaps played off against each other by the three,
 what a poor, pitiful figure will america make in their eyes! how liable
 would she become not only to their contempt but to their outrage, and
 how soon would dear-bought experience proclaim that when a people or
 family so divide, it never fails to be against themselves.
 
 publius
