
 the consequences of hostilities between the states
 
 from the new york packet. tuesday, november 20, 1787.
 
 hamilton
 
 to the people of the state of new york:
 
 assuming it therefore as an established truth that the several states,
 in case of disunion, or such combinations of them as might happen to be
 formed out of the wreck of the general confederacy, would be subject to
 those vicissitudes of peace and war, of friendship and enmity, with
 each other, which have fallen to the lot of all neighboring nations not
 united under one government, let us enter into a concise detail of some
 of the consequences that would attend such a situation.
 
 war between the states, in the first period of their separate existence,
 would be accompanied with much greater distresses than it commonly is
 in those countries where regular military establishments have long
 obtained. the disciplined armies always kept on foot on the continent
 of europe, though they bear a malignant aspect to liberty and economy,
 have, notwithstanding, been productive of the signal advantage of
 rendering sudden conquests impracticable, and of preventing that
 rapid desolation which used to mark the progress of war prior to their
 introduction. the art of fortification has contributed to the same ends.
 the nations of europe are encircled with chains of fortified places,
 which mutually obstruct invasion. campaigns are wasted in reducing two
 or three frontier garrisons, to gain admittance into an enemy's country.
 similar impediments occur at every step, to exhaust the strength and
 delay the progress of an invader. formerly, an invading army would
 penetrate into the heart of a neighboring country almost as soon as
 intelligence of its approach could be received; but now a comparatively
 small force of disciplined troops, acting on the defensive, with the aid
 of posts, is able to impede, and finally to frustrate, the enterprises
 of one much more considerable. the history of war, in that quarter
 of the globe, is no longer a history of nations subdued and empires
 overturned, but of towns taken and retaken; of battles that decide
 nothing; of retreats more beneficial than victories; of much effort and
 little acquisition.
 
 in this country the scene would be altogether reversed. the jealousy
 of military establishments would postpone them as long as possible.
 the want of fortifications, leaving the frontiers of one state open
 to another, would facilitate inroads. the populous states would, with
 little difficulty, overrun their less populous neighbors. conquests
 would be as easy to be made as difficult to be retained. war, therefore,
 would be desultory and predatory. plunder and devastation ever march in
 the train of irregulars. the calamities of individuals would make the
 principal figure in the events which would characterize our military
 exploits.
 
 this picture is not too highly wrought; though, i confess, it would not
 long remain a just one. safety from external danger is the most powerful
 director of national conduct. even the ardent love of liberty will,
 after a time, give way to its dictates. the violent destruction of life
 and property incident to war, the continual effort and alarm attendant
 on a state of continual danger, will compel nations the most attached to
 liberty to resort for repose and security to institutions which have a
 tendency to destroy their civil and political rights. to be more safe,
 they at length become willing to run the risk of being less free.
 
 the institutions chiefly alluded to are standing armies and the
 correspondent appendages of military establishments. standing armies,
 it is said, are not provided against in the new constitution; and it
 is therefore inferred that they may exist under it.(1) their existence,
 however, from the very terms of the proposition, is, at most,
 problematical and uncertain. but standing armies, it may be replied,
 must inevitably result from a dissolution of the confederacy. frequent
 war and constant apprehension, which require a state of as constant
 preparation, will infallibly produce them. the weaker states or
 confederacies would first have recourse to them, to put themselves upon
 an equality with their more potent neighbors. they would endeavor to
 supply the inferiority of population and resources by a more regular
 and effective system of defense, by disciplined troops, and by
 fortifications. they would, at the same time, be necessitated to
 strengthen the executive arm of government, in doing which their
 constitutions would acquire a progressive direction toward monarchy. it
 is of the nature of war to increase the executive at the expense of the
 legislative authority.
 
 the expedients which have been mentioned would soon give the states or
 confederacies that made use of them a superiority over their neighbors.
 small states, or states of less natural strength, under vigorous
 governments, and with the assistance of disciplined armies, have often
 triumphed over large states, or states of greater natural strength,
 which have been destitute of these advantages. neither the pride nor the
 safety of the more important states or confederacies would permit them
 long to submit to this mortifying and adventitious superiority. they
 would quickly resort to means similar to those by which it had been
 effected, to reinstate themselves in their lost pre-eminence. thus, we
 should, in a little time, see established in every part of this country
 the same engines of despotism which have been the scourge of the old
 world. this, at least, would be the natural course of things; and our
 reasonings will be the more likely to be just, in proportion as they are
 accommodated to this standard.
 
 these are not vague inferences drawn from supposed or speculative
 defects in a constitution, the whole power of which is lodged in the
 hands of a people, or their representatives and delegates, but they
 are solid conclusions, drawn from the natural and necessary progress of
 human affairs.
 
 it may, perhaps, be asked, by way of objection to this, why did
 not standing armies spring up out of the contentions which so often
 distracted the ancient republics of greece? different answers, equally
 satisfactory, may be given to this question. the industrious habits of
 the people of the present day, absorbed in the pursuits of gain,
 and devoted to the improvements of agriculture and commerce, are
 incompatible with the condition of a nation of soldiers, which was the
 true condition of the people of those republics. the means of revenue,
 which have been so greatly multiplied by the increase of gold and silver
 and of the arts of industry, and the science of finance, which is the
 offspring of modern times, concurring with the habits of nations, have
 produced an entire revolution in the system of war, and have rendered
 disciplined armies, distinct from the body of the citizens, the
 inseparable companions of frequent hostility.
 
 there is a wide difference, also, between military establishments in a
 country seldom exposed by its situation to internal invasions, and in
 one which is often subject to them, and always apprehensive of them.
 the rulers of the former can have no good pretext, if they are even so
 inclined, to keep on foot armies so numerous as must of necessity be
 maintained in the latter. these armies being, in the first case, rarely,
 if at all, called into activity for interior defense, the people are in
 no danger of being broken to military subordination. the laws are not
 accustomed to relaxations, in favor of military exigencies; the civil
 state remains in full vigor, neither corrupted, nor confounded with the
 principles or propensities of the other state. the smallness of the army
 renders the natural strength of the community an overmatch for it;
 and the citizens, not habituated to look up to the military power for
 protection, or to submit to its oppressions, neither love nor fear the
 soldiery; they view them with a spirit of jealous acquiescence in a
 necessary evil, and stand ready to resist a power which they suppose may
 be exerted to the prejudice of their rights.
 
 the army under such circumstances may usefully aid the magistrate to
 suppress a small faction, or an occasional mob, or insurrection; but it
 will be unable to enforce encroachments against the united efforts of
 the great body of the people.
 
 in a country in the predicament last described, the contrary of all this
 happens. the perpetual menacings of danger oblige the government to
 be always prepared to repel it; its armies must be numerous enough for
 instant defense. the continual necessity for their services enhances the
 importance of the soldier, and proportionably degrades the condition of
 the citizen. the military state becomes elevated above the civil. the
 inhabitants of territories, often the theatre of war, are unavoidably
 subjected to frequent infringements on their rights, which serve to
 weaken their sense of those rights; and by degrees the people are
 brought to consider the soldiery not only as their protectors, but
 as their superiors. the transition from this disposition to that of
 considering them masters, is neither remote nor difficult; but it is
 very difficult to prevail upon a people under such impressions, to make
 a bold or effectual resistance to usurpations supported by the military
 power.
 
 the kingdom of great britain falls within the first description. an
 insular situation, and a powerful marine, guarding it in a great measure
 against the possibility of foreign invasion, supersede the necessity
 of a numerous army within the kingdom. a sufficient force to make head
 against a sudden descent, till the militia could have time to rally and
 embody, is all that has been deemed requisite. no motive of national
 policy has demanded, nor would public opinion have tolerated, a larger
 number of troops upon its domestic establishment. there has been, for a
 long time past, little room for the operation of the other causes, which
 have been enumerated as the consequences of internal war. this peculiar
 felicity of situation has, in a great degree, contributed to preserve
 the liberty which that country to this day enjoys, in spite of the
 prevalent venality and corruption. if, on the contrary, britain had been
 situated on the continent, and had been compelled, as she would have
 been, by that situation, to make her military establishments at home
 coextensive with those of the other great powers of europe, she, like
 them, would in all probability be, at this day, a victim to the absolute
 power of a single man. it is possible, though not easy, that the people
 of that island may be enslaved from other causes; but it cannot be by
 the prowess of an army so inconsiderable as that which has been usually
 kept up within the kingdom.
 
 if we are wise enough to preserve the union we may for ages enjoy an
 advantage similar to that of an insulated situation. europe is at a
 great distance from us. her colonies in our vicinity will be likely to
 continue too much disproportioned in strength to be able to give us any
 dangerous annoyance. extensive military establishments cannot, in this
 position, be necessary to our security. but if we should be disunited,
 and the integral parts should either remain separated, or, which is most
 probable, should be thrown together into two or three confederacies,
 we should be, in a short course of time, in the predicament of the
 continental powers of europe--our liberties would be a prey to the means
 of defending ourselves against the ambition and jealousy of each other.
 
 this is an idea not superficial or futile, but solid and weighty. it
 deserves the most serious and mature consideration of every prudent and
 honest man of whatever party. if such men will make a firm and
 solemn pause, and meditate dispassionately on the importance of this
 interesting idea; if they will contemplate it in all its attitudes, and
 trace it to all its consequences, they will not hesitate to part with
 trivial objections to a constitution, the rejection of which would in
 all probability put a final period to the union. the airy phantoms that
 flit before the distempered imaginations of some of its adversaries
 would quickly give place to the more substantial forms of dangers, real,
 certain, and formidable.
 
 publius
 
 1. this objection will be fully examined in its proper place, and it
 will be shown that the only natural precaution which could have been
 taken on this subject has been taken; and a much better one than is to
 be found in any constitution that has been heretofore framed in america,
 most of which contain no guard at all on this subject.
