
 general introduction
 
 for the independent journal. saturday, october 27, 1787
 
 
 hamilton
 
 to the people of the state of new york:
 
 after an unequivocal experience of the inefficacy of the subsisting
 federal government, you are called upon to deliberate on a new
 constitution for the united states of america. the subject speaks its
 own importance; comprehending in its consequences nothing less than the
 existence of the union, the safety and welfare of the parts of which it
 is composed, the fate of an empire in many respects the most interesting
 in the world. it has been frequently remarked that it seems to have been
 reserved to the people of this country, by their conduct and example,
 to decide the important question, whether societies of men are really
 capable or not of establishing good government from reflection and
 choice, or whether they are forever destined to depend for their
 political constitutions on accident and force. if there be any truth
 in the remark, the crisis at which we are arrived may with propriety be
 regarded as the era in which that decision is to be made; and a wrong
 election of the part we shall act may, in this view, deserve to be
 considered as the general misfortune of mankind.
 
 this idea will add the inducements of philanthropy to those of
 patriotism, to heighten the solicitude which all considerate and good
 men must feel for the event. happy will it be if our choice should be
 directed by a judicious estimate of our true interests, unperplexed and
 unbiased by considerations not connected with the public good. but this
 is a thing more ardently to be wished than seriously to be expected. the
 plan offered to our deliberations affects too many particular interests,
 innovates upon too many local institutions, not to involve in its
 discussion a variety of objects foreign to its merits, and of views,
 passions and prejudices little favorable to the discovery of truth.
 
 among the most formidable of the obstacles which the new constitution
 will have to encounter may readily be distinguished the obvious interest
 of a certain class of men in every state to resist all changes which
 may hazard a diminution of the power, emolument, and consequence of
 the offices they hold under the state establishments; and the perverted
 ambition of another class of men, who will either hope to aggrandize
 themselves by the confusions of their country, or will flatter
 themselves with fairer prospects of elevation from the subdivision of
 the empire into several partial confederacies than from its union under
 one government.
 
 it is not, however, my design to dwell upon observations of this
 nature. i am well aware that it would be disingenuous to resolve
 indiscriminately the opposition of any set of men (merely because their
 situations might subject them to suspicion) into interested or ambitious
 views. candor will oblige us to admit that even such men may be actuated
 by upright intentions; and it cannot be doubted that much of the
 opposition which has made its appearance, or may hereafter make its
 appearance, will spring from sources, blameless at least, if not
 respectable--the honest errors of minds led astray by preconceived
 jealousies and fears. so numerous indeed and so powerful are the causes
 which serve to give a false bias to the judgment, that we, upon many
 occasions, see wise and good men on the wrong as well as on the right
 side of questions of the first magnitude to society. this circumstance,
 if duly attended to, would furnish a lesson of moderation to those
 who are ever so much persuaded of their being in the right in any
 controversy. and a further reason for caution, in this respect, might
 be drawn from the reflection that we are not always sure that those
 who advocate the truth are influenced by purer principles than their
 antagonists. ambition, avarice, personal animosity, party opposition,
 and many other motives not more laudable than these, are apt to operate
 as well upon those who support as those who oppose the right side of a
 question. were there not even these inducements to moderation, nothing
 could be more ill-judged than that intolerant spirit which has, at all
 times, characterized political parties. for in politics, as in religion,
 it is equally absurd to aim at making proselytes by fire and sword.
 heresies in either can rarely be cured by persecution.
 
 and yet, however just these sentiments will be allowed to be, we have
 already sufficient indications that it will happen in this as in all
 former cases of great national discussion. a torrent of angry and
 malignant passions will be let loose. to judge from the conduct of the
 opposite parties, we shall be led to conclude that they will mutually
 hope to evince the justness of their opinions, and to increase the
 number of their converts by the loudness of their declamations and the
 bitterness of their invectives. an enlightened zeal for the energy
 and efficiency of government will be stigmatized as the offspring of a
 temper fond of despotic power and hostile to the principles of liberty.
 an over-scrupulous jealousy of danger to the rights of the people,
 which is more commonly the fault of the head than of the heart, will be
 represented as mere pretense and artifice, the stale bait for popularity
 at the expense of the public good. it will be forgotten, on the one
 hand, that jealousy is the usual concomitant of love, and that the noble
 enthusiasm of liberty is apt to be infected with a spirit of narrow and
 illiberal distrust. on the other hand, it will be equally forgotten that
 the vigor of government is essential to the security of liberty; that,
 in the contemplation of a sound and well-informed judgment, their
 interest can never be separated; and that a dangerous ambition more
 often lurks behind the specious mask of zeal for the rights of the
 people than under the forbidden appearance of zeal for the firmness and
 efficiency of government. history will teach us that the former has been
 found a much more certain road to the introduction of despotism than
 the latter, and that of those men who have overturned the liberties
 of republics, the greatest number have begun their career by paying
 an obsequious court to the people; commencing demagogues, and ending
 tyrants.
 
 in the course of the preceding observations, i have had an eye, my
 fellow-citizens, to putting you upon your guard against all attempts,
 from whatever quarter, to influence your decision in a matter of the
 utmost moment to your welfare, by any impressions other than those which
 may result from the evidence of truth. you will, no doubt, at the same
 time, have collected from the general scope of them, that they
 proceed from a source not unfriendly to the new constitution. yes,
 my countrymen, i own to you that, after having given it an attentive
 consideration, i am clearly of opinion it is your interest to adopt it.
 i am convinced that this is the safest course for your liberty, your
 dignity, and your happiness. i affect not reserves which i do not feel.
 i will not amuse you with an appearance of deliberation when i have
 decided. i frankly acknowledge to you my convictions, and i will freely
 lay before you the reasons on which they are founded. the consciousness
 of good intentions disdains ambiguity. i shall not, however, multiply
 professions on this head. my motives must remain in the depository of
 my own breast. my arguments will be open to all, and may be judged of by
 all. they shall at least be offered in a spirit which will not disgrace
 the cause of truth.
 
 i propose, in a series of papers, to discuss the following interesting
 particulars:
 
 the utility of the union to your political prosperity the insufficiency
 of the present confederation to preserve that union the necessity of
 a government at least equally energetic with the one proposed, to the
 attainment of this object the conformity of the proposed constitution
 to the true principles of republican government its analogy to your
 own state constitution and lastly, the additional security which its
 adoption will afford to the preservation of that species of government,
 to liberty, and to property.
 
 in the progress of this discussion i shall endeavor to give a
 satisfactory answer to all the objections which shall have made their
 appearance, that may seem to have any claim to your attention.
 
 it may perhaps be thought superfluous to offer arguments to prove the
 utility of the union, a point, no doubt, deeply engraved on the hearts
 of the great body of the people in every state, and one, which it may be
 imagined, has no adversaries. but the fact is, that we already hear
 it whispered in the private circles of those who oppose the new
 constitution, that the thirteen states are of too great extent for
 any general system, and that we must of necessity resort to separate
 confederacies of distinct portions of the whole.(1) this doctrine will,
 in all probability, be gradually propagated, till it has votaries enough
 to countenance an open avowal of it. for nothing can be more evident,
 to those who are able to take an enlarged view of the subject, than the
 alternative of an adoption of the new constitution or a dismemberment
 of the union. it will therefore be of use to begin by examining the
 advantages of that union, the certain evils, and the probable dangers,
 to which every state will be exposed from its dissolution. this shall
 accordingly constitute the subject of my next address.
 
 publius
 
 1. the same idea, tracing the arguments to their consequences, is held
 out in several of the late publications against the new constitution.
