
 the same subject continued (concerning dangers from foreign force and
 influence)
 
 for the independent journal. saturday, november 3, 1787
 
 jay
 
 to the people of the state of new york:
 
 it is not a new observation that the people of any country (if, like
 the americans, intelligent and wellinformed) seldom adopt and steadily
 persevere for many years in an erroneous opinion respecting their
 interests. that consideration naturally tends to create great respect
 for the high opinion which the people of america have so long and
 uniformly entertained of the importance of their continuing firmly
 united under one federal government, vested with sufficient powers for
 all general and national purposes.
 
 the more attentively i consider and investigate the reasons which appear
 to have given birth to this opinion, the more i become convinced that
 they are cogent and conclusive.
 
 among the many objects to which a wise and free people find it necessary
 to direct their attention, that of providing for their safety seems to
 be the first. the safety of the people doubtless has relation to a great
 variety of circumstances and considerations, and consequently
 affords great latitude to those who wish to define it precisely and
 comprehensively.
 
 at present i mean only to consider it as it respects security for the
 preservation of peace and tranquillity, as well as against dangers from
 foreign arms and influence, as from dangers of the like kind arising
 from domestic causes. as the former of these comes first in order, it
 is proper it should be the first discussed. let us therefore proceed to
 examine whether the people are not right in their opinion that a cordial
 union, under an efficient national government, affords them the best
 security that can be devised against hostilities from abroad.
 
 the number of wars which have happened or will happen in the world will
 always be found to be in proportion to the number and weight of the
 causes, whether real or pretended, which provoke or invite them. if this
 remark be just, it becomes useful to inquire whether so many just causes
 of war are likely to be given by united america as by disunited america;
 for if it should turn out that united america will probably give the
 fewest, then it will follow that in this respect the union tends most to
 preserve the people in a state of peace with other nations.
 
 the just causes of war, for the most part, arise either from violation
 of treaties or from direct violence. america has already formed treaties
 with no less than six foreign nations, and all of them, except prussia,
 are maritime, and therefore able to annoy and injure us. she has also
 extensive commerce with portugal, spain, and britain, and, with respect
 to the two latter, has, in addition, the circumstance of neighborhood to
 attend to.
 
 it is of high importance to the peace of america that she observe the
 laws of nations towards all these powers, and to me it appears evident
 that this will be more perfectly and punctually done by one national
 government than it could be either by thirteen separate states or by
 three or four distinct confederacies.
 
 because when once an efficient national government is established, the
 best men in the country will not only consent to serve, but also will
 generally be appointed to manage it; for, although town or country,
 or other contracted influence, may place men in state assemblies,
 or senates, or courts of justice, or executive departments, yet more
 general and extensive reputation for talents and other qualifications
 will be necessary to recommend men to offices under the national
 government,--especially as it will have the widest field for choice, and
 never experience that want of proper persons which is not uncommon in
 some of the states. hence, it will result that the administration,
 the political counsels, and the judicial decisions of the national
 government will be more wise, systematical, and judicious than those of
 individual states, and consequently more satisfactory with respect to
 other nations, as well as more safe with respect to us.
 
 because, under the national government, treaties and articles of
 treaties, as well as the laws of nations, will always be expounded in
 one sense and executed in the same manner,--whereas, adjudications on
 the same points and questions, in thirteen states, or in three or four
 confederacies, will not always accord or be consistent; and that, as
 well from the variety of independent courts and judges appointed by
 different and independent governments, as from the different local laws
 and interests which may affect and influence them. the wisdom of
 the convention, in committing such questions to the jurisdiction and
 judgment of courts appointed by and responsible only to one national
 government, cannot be too much commended.
 
 because the prospect of present loss or advantage may often tempt the
 governing party in one or two states to swerve from good faith and
 justice; but those temptations, not reaching the other states, and
 consequently having little or no influence on the national government,
 the temptation will be fruitless, and good faith and justice be
 preserved. the case of the treaty of peace with britain adds great
 weight to this reasoning.
 
 because, even if the governing party in a state should be disposed to
 resist such temptations, yet as such temptations may, and commonly do,
 result from circumstances peculiar to the state, and may affect a great
 number of the inhabitants, the governing party may not always be
 able, if willing, to prevent the injustice meditated, or to punish the
 aggressors. but the national government, not being affected by those
 local circumstances, will neither be induced to commit the wrong
 themselves, nor want power or inclination to prevent or punish its
 commission by others.
 
 so far, therefore, as either designed or accidental violations of
 treaties and the laws of nations afford just causes of war, they are
 less to be apprehended under one general government than under several
 lesser ones, and in that respect the former most favors the safety of
 the people.
 
 as to those just causes of war which proceed from direct and unlawful
 violence, it appears equally clear to me that one good national
 government affords vastly more security against dangers of that sort
 than can be derived from any other quarter.
 
 because such violences are more frequently caused by the passions and
 interests of a part than of the whole; of one or two states than of the
 union. not a single indian war has yet been occasioned by aggressions of
 the present federal government, feeble as it is; but there are several
 instances of indian hostilities having been provoked by the improper
 conduct of individual states, who, either unable or unwilling to
 restrain or punish offenses, have given occasion to the slaughter of
 many innocent inhabitants.
 
 the neighborhood of spanish and british territories, bordering on some
 states and not on others, naturally confines the causes of quarrel more
 immediately to the borderers. the bordering states, if any, will be
 those who, under the impulse of sudden irritation, and a quick sense of
 apparent interest or injury, will be most likely, by direct violence,
 to excite war with these nations; and nothing can so effectually obviate
 that danger as a national government, whose wisdom and prudence will
 not be diminished by the passions which actuate the parties immediately
 interested.
 
 but not only fewer just causes of war will be given by the national
 government, but it will also be more in their power to accommodate and
 settle them amicably. they will be more temperate and cool, and in that
 respect, as well as in others, will be more in capacity to act advisedly
 than the offending state. the pride of states, as well as of men,
 naturally disposes them to justify all their actions, and opposes their
 acknowledging, correcting, or repairing their errors and offenses. the
 national government, in such cases, will not be affected by this pride,
 but will proceed with moderation and candor to consider and decide on
 the means most proper to extricate them from the difficulties which
 threaten them.
 
 besides, it is well known that acknowledgments, explanations, and
 compensations are often accepted as satisfactory from a strong united
 nation, which would be rejected as unsatisfactory if offered by a state
 or confederacy of little consideration or power.
 
 in the year 1685, the state of genoa having offended louis xiv.,
 endeavored to appease him. he demanded that they should send their doge,
 or chief magistrate, accompanied by four of their senators, to france,
 to ask his pardon and receive his terms. they were obliged to submit to
 it for the sake of peace. would he on any occasion either have demanded
 or have received the like humiliation from spain, or britain, or any
 other powerful nation?
 
 publius
