
 concerning dangers from dissensions between the states
 
 for the independent journal. wednesday, november 14, 1787
 
 hamilton
 
 to the people of the state of new york:
 
 the three last numbers of this paper have been dedicated to an
 enumeration of the dangers to which we should be exposed, in a state of
 disunion, from the arms and arts of foreign nations. i shall now proceed
 to delineate dangers of a different and, perhaps, still more alarming
 kind--those which will in all probability flow from dissensions between
 the states themselves, and from domestic factions and convulsions.
 these have been already in some instances slightly anticipated; but they
 deserve a more particular and more full investigation.
 
 a man must be far gone in utopian speculations who can seriously doubt
 that, if these states should either be wholly disunited, or only united
 in partial confederacies, the subdivisions into which they might be
 thrown would have frequent and violent contests with each other. to
 presume a want of motives for such contests as an argument against their
 existence, would be to forget that men are ambitious, vindictive, and
 rapacious. to look for a continuation of harmony between a number of
 independent, unconnected sovereignties in the same neighborhood, would
 be to disregard the uniform course of human events, and to set at
 defiance the accumulated experience of ages.
 
 the causes of hostility among nations are innumerable. there are some
 which have a general and almost constant operation upon the collective
 bodies of society. of this description are the love of power or the
 desire of pre-eminence and dominion--the jealousy of power, or the
 desire of equality and safety. there are others which have a more
 circumscribed though an equally operative influence within their
 spheres. such are the rivalships and competitions of commerce between
 commercial nations. and there are others, not less numerous than either
 of the former, which take their origin entirely in private passions;
 in the attachments, enmities, interests, hopes, and fears of leading
 individuals in the communities of which they are members. men of this
 class, whether the favorites of a king or of a people, have in too many
 instances abused the confidence they possessed; and assuming the pretext
 of some public motive, have not scrupled to sacrifice the national
 tranquillity to personal advantage or personal gratification.
 
 the celebrated pericles, in compliance with the resentment of a
 prostitute,(1) at the expense of much of the blood and treasure of
 his countrymen, attacked, vanquished, and destroyed the city of
 the sammians. the same man, stimulated by private pique against the
 megarensians,(2) another nation of greece, or to avoid a prosecution
 with which he was threatened as an accomplice of a supposed theft of
 the statuary phidias,(3) or to get rid of the accusations prepared to
 be brought against him for dissipating the funds of the state in the
 purchase of popularity,(4) or from a combination of all these causes,
 was the primitive author of that famous and fatal war, distinguished in
 the grecian annals by the name of the peloponnesian war; which, after
 various vicissitudes, intermissions, and renewals, terminated in the
 ruin of the athenian commonwealth.
 
 the ambitious cardinal, who was prime minister to henry viii.,
 permitting his vanity to aspire to the triple crown,(5) entertained
 hopes of succeeding in the acquisition of that splendid prize by the
 influence of the emperor charles v. to secure the favor and interest of
 this enterprising and powerful monarch, he precipitated england into a
 war with france, contrary to the plainest dictates of policy, and at the
 hazard of the safety and independence, as well of the kingdom over which
 he presided by his counsels, as of europe in general. for if there
 ever was a sovereign who bid fair to realize the project of universal
 monarchy, it was the emperor charles v., of whose intrigues wolsey was
 at once the instrument and the dupe.
 
 the influence which the bigotry of one female,(6) the petulance of
 another,(7) and the cabals of a third,(8) had in the contemporary
 policy, ferments, and pacifications, of a considerable part of europe,
 are topics that have been too often descanted upon not to be generally
 known.
 
 to multiply examples of the agency of personal considerations in
 the production of great national events, either foreign or domestic,
 according to their direction, would be an unnecessary waste of time.
 those who have but a superficial acquaintance with the sources from
 which they are to be drawn, will themselves recollect a variety of
 instances; and those who have a tolerable knowledge of human nature will
 not stand in need of such lights to form their opinion either of the
 reality or extent of that agency. perhaps, however, a reference, tending
 to illustrate the general principle, may with propriety be made to a
 case which has lately happened among ourselves. if shays had not been a
 desperate debtor, it is much to be doubted whether massachusetts would
 have been plunged into a civil war.
 
 but notwithstanding the concurring testimony of experience, in this
 particular, there are still to be found visionary or designing men,
 who stand ready to advocate the paradox of perpetual peace between the
 states, though dismembered and alienated from each other. the genius of
 republics (say they) is pacific; the spirit of commerce has a tendency
 to soften the manners of men, and to extinguish those inflammable humors
 which have so often kindled into wars. commercial republics, like ours,
 will never be disposed to waste themselves in ruinous contentions with
 each other. they will be governed by mutual interest, and will cultivate
 a spirit of mutual amity and concord.
 
 is it not (we may ask these projectors in politics) the true interest of
 all nations to cultivate the same benevolent and philosophic spirit? if
 this be their true interest, have they in fact pursued it? has it not,
 on the contrary, invariably been found that momentary passions, and
 immediate interest, have a more active and imperious control over human
 conduct than general or remote considerations of policy, utility or
 justice? have republics in practice been less addicted to war than
 monarchies? are not the former administered by men as well as the
 latter? are there not aversions, predilections, rivalships, and desires
 of unjust acquisitions, that affect nations as well as kings? are
 not popular assemblies frequently subject to the impulses of rage,
 resentment, jealousy, avarice, and of other irregular and violent
 propensities? is it not well known that their determinations are often
 governed by a few individuals in whom they place confidence, and are,
 of course, liable to be tinctured by the passions and views of those
 individuals? has commerce hitherto done anything more than change
 the objects of war? is not the love of wealth as domineering and
 enterprising a passion as that of power or glory? have there not been
 as many wars founded upon commercial motives since that has become the
 prevailing system of nations, as were before occasioned by the cupidity
 of territory or dominion? has not the spirit of commerce, in many
 instances, administered new incentives to the appetite, both for the
 one and for the other? let experience, the least fallible guide of human
 opinions, be appealed to for an answer to these inquiries.
 
 sparta, athens, rome, and carthage were all republics; two of them,
 athens and carthage, of the commercial kind. yet were they as often
 engaged in wars, offensive and defensive, as the neighboring monarchies
 of the same times. sparta was little better than a wellregulated camp;
 and rome was never sated of carnage and conquest.
 
 carthage, though a commercial republic, was the aggressor in the very
 war that ended in her destruction. hannibal had carried her arms into
 the heart of italy and to the gates of rome, before scipio, in turn,
 gave him an overthrow in the territories of carthage, and made a
 conquest of the commonwealth.
 
 venice, in later times, figured more than once in wars of ambition,
 till, becoming an object to the other italian states, pope julius ii.
 found means to accomplish that formidable league,(9) which gave a deadly
 blow to the power and pride of this haughty republic.
 
 the provinces of holland, till they were overwhelmed in debts and taxes,
 took a leading and conspicuous part in the wars of europe. they had
 furious contests with england for the dominion of the sea, and were
 among the most persevering and most implacable of the opponents of louis
 xiv.
 
 in the government of britain the representatives of the people compose
 one branch of the national legislature. commerce has been for ages the
 predominant pursuit of that country. few nations, nevertheless, have
 been more frequently engaged in war; and the wars in which that kingdom
 has been engaged have, in numerous instances, proceeded from the people.
 
 there have been, if i may so express it, almost as many popular as
 royal wars. the cries of the nation and the importunities of their
 representatives have, upon various occasions, dragged their monarchs
 into war, or continued them in it, contrary to their inclinations, and
 sometimes contrary to the real interests of the state. in that memorable
 struggle for superiority between the rival houses of austria and
 bourbon, which so long kept europe in a flame, it is well known that the
 antipathies of the english against the french, seconding the ambition,
 or rather the avarice, of a favorite leader,(10) protracted the war
 beyond the limits marked out by sound policy, and for a considerable
 time in opposition to the views of the court.
 
 the wars of these two last-mentioned nations have in a great measure
 grown out of commercial considerations,--the desire of supplanting and
 the fear of being supplanted, either in particular branches of traffic
 or in the general advantages of trade and navigation, and sometimes even
 the more culpable desire of sharing in the commerce of other nations
 without their consent.
 
 the last war but between britain and spain sprang from the attempts of
 the british merchants to prosecute an illicit trade with the spanish
 main. these unjustifiable practices on their part produced severity on
 the part of the spaniards toward the subjects of great britain which
 were not more justifiable, because they exceeded the bounds of a just
 retaliation and were chargeable with inhumanity and cruelty. many of
 the english who were taken on the spanish coast were sent to dig in the
 mines of potosi; and by the usual progress of a spirit of resentment,
 the innocent were, after a while, confounded with the guilty in
 indiscriminate punishment. the complaints of the merchants kindled a
 violent flame throughout the nation, which soon after broke out in the
 house of commons, and was communicated from that body to the ministry.
 letters of reprisal were granted, and a war ensued, which in its
 consequences overthrew all the alliances that but twenty years before
 had been formed with sanguine expectations of the most beneficial
 fruits.
 
 from this summary of what has taken place in other countries, whose
 situations have borne the nearest resemblance to our own, what reason
 can we have to confide in those reveries which would seduce us into an
 expectation of peace and cordiality between the members of the present
 confederacy, in a state of separation? have we not already seen enough
 of the fallacy and extravagance of those idle theories which have amused
 us with promises of an exemption from the imperfections, weaknesses and
 evils incident to society in every shape? is it not time to awake from
 the deceitful dream of a golden age, and to adopt as a practical maxim
 for the direction of our political conduct that we, as well as the
 other inhabitants of the globe, are yet remote from the happy empire of
 perfect wisdom and perfect virtue?
 
 let the point of extreme depression to which our national dignity and
 credit have sunk, let the inconveniences felt everywhere from a lax and
 ill administration of government, let the revolt of a part of the state
 of north carolina, the late menacing disturbances in pennsylvania, and
 the actual insurrections and rebellions in massachusetts, declare--!
 
 so far is the general sense of mankind from corresponding with the
 tenets of those who endeavor to lull asleep our apprehensions of discord
 and hostility between the states, in the event of disunion, that it has
 from long observation of the progress of society become a sort of axiom
 in politics, that vicinity or nearness of situation, constitutes nations
 natural enemies. an intelligent writer expresses himself on this subject
 to this effect: "neighboring nations (says he) are naturally enemies
 of each other unless their common weakness forces them to league in a
 confederate republic, and their constitution prevents the differences
 that neighborhood occasions, extinguishing that secret jealousy which
 disposes all states to aggrandize themselves at the expense of their
 neighbors."(11) this passage, at the same time, points out the evil and
 suggests the remedy.
 
 publius
 
 1. aspasia, vide "plutarch's life of pericles."
 
 2. ibid.
 
 3. ibid.
 
 4. ibid. phidias was supposed to have stolen some public gold, with the
 connivance of pericles, for the embellishment of the statue of minerva.
 
 5. worn by the popes.
 
 6. madame de maintenon.
 
 7. duchess of marlborough.
 
 8. madame de pompadour.
 
 9. the league of cambray, comprehending the emperor, the king of france,
 the king of aragon, and most of the italian princes and states.
 
 10. the duke of marlborough.
 
 11. vide "principes des negociations" par l'abbé de mably.
