Ilya Besancon
Software Design Spring 2017
MP3: Text Mining Reflection

1) Project Overview:

I used a twitter api to look at Chef Gordon Ramsay's last 200 tweets and used vader sentiment analysis.
I was curious to look at if his tweets were generally positive or negative.

2) Implementation

From a system architectural perspective, this code is pretty simple. I used the twitter library,
and used an api to gather the tweets I was interested in. I parsed them by using the .text function.
This was actually my big design change, because initially I tried to manually parse the 'Text=' from the
original list. Sentiment analysis is a pre-made package, and I just ran it through every individual tweet, and averaged
that data to get my final result.

3) Results

Given the simple nature of this program, there isn't much to show for result.
Here is the output of my program:
Average Sentiment of 200 Chef Gordon Ramsay's Tweets:  0.181
This means that his sentiment averages at a little more positive than neutral. This makes sense,
because although he has quite a character, his twitter is composed of generally positive news and thoughts.
Although there are a few sassy remarks, which lower the average sentiment!

4) Reflection

As soon as I figured out how to use item.text to parse the list of tweets I pulled using api.GetUserTimeline,
my task became a lot less frustrating. This makes what was previously the hardest part of my program very elegant
and properly functioning. Easy as pie! I did not consider unit testing, I would just print the values I was using
to make calculations along the way, such as number of tweets and total "compound" sentiment. This project was definitely
very useful in showing me how simple and how potent it is to pull data from a data source such as Twitter, Reddit, Wikipedia, etc.
I would have liked to better understand how to navigate the twitter api in order to pursue my inital idea of looking at
specific word frequency over time. It seems that I spent a lot more time figuring out how to get my data than how to
process and reflect upon its analysis. 
